Where did, uh, record to the cloud.
Good.
Welcome to the Open Global Mind weekly call on Thursday, October 9th, 2023.
5. Um, last week, in lieu of a check-in, which is what we normally do on the first month… first Thursdays of every month,
We started talking about OGM and our process and our protocols, and how we go about doing stuff.
A conversation which went really nicely.
and took us into some really interesting questions that are
Beyond the immediate needs of how do we do what we do, but rather
How do online communities actually communicate, and where is this whole damn thing going? And how does AI factor into the mix in a productive way?
So I'd like to continue that quest today.
I'd like to see where we can… where we go.
A couple people, uh, Thorbjorn men and John Warner, sent very thoughtful, uh, replies to my invite.
to this topic, to the OGM list,
Which I was just kind of reviewing.
And, um…
And I'm wondering if there's any… first, if anybody has any afterthoughts from last week, or just on the topic in general. I just want to open the floor and see what's
what's on… what's on our minds about this?
Yeah, and here's John.
Stacy, please.
Well, I just had one afterthought. And Jesse actually covered it really well.
But, um… When… when…
Strategy runs with this.
I… that was John, and I just… he's in his car on his phone, so I just muted his line.
Is there a… is there an echo? Okay.
No, no worries, John. It's not anybody invading the, uh…
As long as it's not…
the call.
Um, the idea of Facebook had come up. You know, as a negative, and I just wanted to point out that.
My understanding is that when Facebook was developed, it was developed for them.
And the idea of developing a platform. For yourself, I think, is an important piece to that.
That aligns with what Jesse was explaining about the way women create.
So I just wanted to make that parallel. Like, I know there's so many negatives to Facebook.
But I think the negatives came in when the idea of monetizing something came in, so I just wanted to bring it back to.
Creating for community.
That is a lovely thing to bring back into the conversation. I really appreciate that.
And I want… and I… my memory of the Facebook birth story is that Zuckerberg created an app to basically find, excuse the language,
hot babes on the Harvard campus.
That was the original purpose of Face Smash, I think is what it was called originally.
Yeah.
Because when you get to campuses like that, you often, at least you used to, you would get a Facebook, we also called it the Pig Book.
Because I went to Penn for a while, and it has photos and names of all the people in your class.
And, uh, you know, you use it to figure out who the heck is that that, you know, seeing down the hall or whatever. Anyway…
Uh, so yeah, so Stacy, the birth story of Facebook is the opposite.
of the energy that you and Jesse were sort of bringing into the room, which I would love.
to explore much more.
Well, but the point I want to make is, yes, there is that negative there.
Yeah.
But there's always two pieces to everything, so while I want to throw out the negative, I don't want to lose the positive piece to it.
Which, which, if I'm gonna reinterpret, correct me if I'm wrong, which is they built something that was useful for them, that it was useful
Yes.
for a group of people trying to get something done, which I totally agree with. The best software… the best software pre-enshinification
Exactly.
is software that helps people get something done they really, really want to do.
And there's… and there's an open question right now about, and I don't think this…
I don't think this will apply to the big software communication platforms.
There's an open question right now about will we be looking at apps in the App Store anymore?
Or will we just talk to an, you know, AI?
So our AI agent, which then generates ad hoc software that we need to get something done.
Uh, this kind of obviates persistent software like a community, because if you can't whip up new software every time you need to talk to your buddies,
Because you need to have been talking to them over time. There's no… I think that the… we'll just whip it up in a moment's notice model doesn't work at all for
Anything with some history or something like that. But there is this open question that AI is going to get rid of the need to have specialty, small-purpose software apps, because
It'll just go, oh, I can do that.
And here's a new app.
Um, kill.
Oh, I can do that, but without the quality control.
For sure.
that you might find with the professional software shop. I mean, I've been playing a lot with AI, and it takes a lot of iterations.
To get it to where I want it to get to.
Um, but back to the platforms for them, platforms for us, etc.
Um, what I'm wondering is, is insidification tightly correlated with monetization?
I… so, um…
I think…
And the related question is, how do you build something
Um, that has the appropriate reach for what's trying to be done.
Uh, and can be sustained economically.
In the course of doing that, without falling into the acidification machine.
Yes, and I think that's, uh, one of the… one of the big questions here is,
Is it possible to have viable, um, sustainable, ongoing concerns software
that doesn't need to go down the intridification rat hole.
And related to that,
Does it if so factor depend on volunteer
labor to sustain.
Which means that the volunteers have to have sources of income from somewhere else, so they're, you know, they may be tied into the insidification machine for most of their lives.
And do volunteer good work, which is lovely.
And it's how we've gotten a lot of the open source, you know, brilliance of the last 50 years, but it's not a sustainable strategy.
Um… yes.
And, um…
Oh, lost my phone. Uh, other thoughts? I'm sort of checking in for those of you who just joined the call. Kevin Jose.
Um, I'm asking, are there any afterthoughts from last week's call, or about this topic in general? So we're just, uh, kind of setting the stage for our conversation.
I wasn't here last week, so I'm not sure that I have any…
Any thoughts yet?
No worries, thanks.
I think John asked… A really interesting set of questions in the email that I'd like to…
I agree. John, thank you for… you and Thorbjorn sent really thoughtful notes to the retreat list.
And…
I'm going to actually copy-paste your note into the chat, which I think will blow the chat
Let's see if it blows the chat text limit.
Yes, I have to cut it in half, hold on.
There we go. That, and that, and of course, it didn't do any of the carriage returns. Sorry about that.
Um, but John, if you're, um…
near your… near your device, would you like to, um…
Talk about what you posted.
And he… oh, good.
Yeah, sorry. Um, I, uh… I don't know quite what to say that wouldn't just be repeating what I wrote, but I understand not everybody is.
That's on the call has seen the… the email…
I just paste… I just pasted into the chat, although it doesn't look as nice as in your email, but it is available to everybody on this call right now.
Yeah. I mean, I mean, the main… the main theme of what I was getting at is, uh, for me, it was a bit of an epiphany, and I'm sure that others, uh, you know, this occurred to others, you know, long ago, but…
Um, in more than one setting, not just OGM, I'm having this experience where I personally am doing a lot with ChatGPT, you know, just as my own internal.
You know, feedback device, cogitation device, whatever. Um, but I'm seeing more and more, like, in the OGM list and elsewhere, where people are having, you know, like, these…
Um, revealing, you know, experiences by… by one-on-one explorations with… with AI.
And understandably, like, we're wanting to share that with others, but we're… so many of us are doing it, like, we don't really have time, you know, to fully digest.
You know, like, I'm having my own conversations. I don't know that I have… whether it's a matter of interest, time, whatever, bandwidth.
You know, you just kind of like… it's all we can do to get, you know, get through our own busy days and busy schedules, so it's like… when someone shares… hey, here's the, you know.
2,000, 4,000 word, you know, exchange that I had, which was probably even an excerpt, right?
Because it's like the… the words pile up pretty quick, you know, with an exchange back and forth, and a… you know, dialogue through a one-hour hike or something, like what I'm doing occasionally with ChatGPT, and…
Anyway, so the main point was, how do we share it? And… the other day was just kind of the first time that this light bulb went on in my head, that it was like.
Sure.
Well, I guess you gotta back up and ask, like, why are we all having one-on-ones with ChatGPT? Like, why aren't we having conversations like this, where… not just ChatGPT, but you guys get what I mean. Um, like we're the LLM is just a participant in the conversation.
So that kind of prompted me to ask ChatGPT, like, well, how far off is that? Because I hadn't even really thought about it, you know?
And the response I got was, oh yeah, you know, like, that's in the pipeline, and it's, you know, maybe a couple years away, because there's a lot to it.
But it just really got me thinking about, that's gonna be a different… chapter of this deal than what… than what we're currently in, and maybe, in a way, it tempers some of the, you know, the internal frustrations where we're… we're bombarding each other with these…
You know, loquacious, you know, exchanges, because we really want to share it, right? Like, because we really feel like we are having some… you know, like, intellectual insights and breakthroughs, and so there's a strong desire to share it, but…
The bandwidth, personal, individual bandwidth just isn't there for each of us to share all this stuff. So, anyway.
Um, John, thank you for that. That helps and amplifies what you said online. And I'm going to make an analogy that may or may not work for you, but… because I use the brain and do mind mapping, but I also talk to people
who do Kumu, system maps, and all this and all that, and my experience of other people's maps
And this may ring a bell for people.
My experience of other people's maps is that maps that they think are really profound and explain a lot are often impenetrable to me or need to be unpacked really slowly, which takes time. The times that it works best,
Uh, like with Gene Bellinger, are when Gene starts with a little piece of the story, and then he adds on a loop, and then he adds on a piece over here, and then he basically builds it out.
which takes the effort on both of our sides. He has to… he has to go back
Once he's elaborated a large map, he has to go back and figure out what is… how do I then unpack this for people?
And I think what's happening, um, in LLMs is that these LLMs are very capable of taking us down really fruitful and interesting paths. A couple years ago, early in this Gen AI era,
Um, I went to pi.ai. It said, what's on your mind? I answered that, and I proceeded in 90 minutes to have the best interview I've ever had with anybody.
Um, and I think I've mentioned this in an OGM call before, but what it kept doing was, it would say, oh, it sounds like you said this, and it would raise the conversation. Do you mean this?
And I'd be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, that. And then it would do it again.
It was not just doing ELISA back to me, it wasn't a stochastic parrot, it was somehow deeply understanding what I was up to, and I was like, oh my god, oh my god!
And I, you know, I haven't actually gone back to that thread. I think it sort of shook me a little bit, because I'm trying to figure out how to incorporate
this new set of AIs into my life more, which is a whole different conversation.
But I say all that because
Many of us are having these exciting conversations, and then we share them in to our media,
Uh, which tends to be, at this point, the OGM list, and then it's a lot of words, it's a couple thousand words, and it's in an out form that's
relatively easy to digest, because bullets and bold help, and the separations help.
These devices are smart enough to format nicely, but they're sort of not as exciting
Um, as they are to the person who had the conversation,
But worse, they impose a long read on whoever is supposed to be, sort of, you know, doing that. And maybe… I'm going to propose a little solution along the way here. Maybe one way to do that is, a lot of these LLMs give you a URL for the conversation,
And instead of pasting the conversation into the email and sharing the whole thing, just to paste the link to the conversation, and anybody who's up for the long read can go do that, and other people can then skip. But I don't know. I think part of our conversation here is,
What are the protocols that will make us less uncomfortable or unhappy with how we're going about
having these conversations, but I like the other part of the conversation, John, which you also opened up, which is, at some point, these agents will be part of our conversation. We will want them to be engaged with this group as a… as…
Gil's Fathom Notetaker is right now, which I sort of resent.
Because… because when Gil shows up, he shows up with, like, 3 different note-takers now. I'm like, no, no, don't want them
But if… but if one of these were as good an interviewer or processor of group dialogue as my experience a couple years ago with Pi.ai,
I'm in. That could be really fruitful for where we're heading. And I'll go to John first, and then I'll go back to the queue.
Yeah, so just a quick response to that, Jerry. It's funny that you mentioned Gene Bellinger, because he was the one.
That told me, this is several years ago. When I was getting into system… thinking, systems mapping, Kumu, all that stuff, and he said, John, just don't make the mistake, he said.
The value of this is the… is the gerund, right? Like, it's the mapping, it's not the map.
And, like, it just exact… he forewarned me of what you said, and I had had that experience myself. You do all this work, you bring people the map.
They can't make any sense of your map. Um, but it's… it's… but if you can lead a group through a mapping exercise.
They get value from the mapping, not the map. And I would think that the same.
Totally what you said, the same… operative, as it work when you're… when you're mapping or thinking, or…
Conversing with an LLM, I think the greatest value is in the conversation.
Not in the product of the conversation. I'll pass on to others.
Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Um, Gil, is your hand up from before, or…?
Are you back in the queue?
No, it's from before, sorry.
Okay, good. Um, Alex?
Uh, you are muted, however.
We will only hear your wisdom if you unmute.
Thank you.
Sorry about that. Um, thanks, John. And, uh. I've got something to say about that, but let me go back first.
To what you said about what we discussed last week, and um… what we started off this week, and we've gone into one of the topics.
And it's as follows. Last week, I had the impression that we… it's like… having multiple balloons up in the air at the same time.
And you kind of keep… you know, backing away whatever comes down, the balloons with the topics.
And I got the feeling that. We didn't really know what we wanted.
To discuss, or we knew what we wanted to discuss, but there's so many aspects to it that… We couldn't cohere to anything, come together to anything. So, that's what I was going to say before John spoke, and now I'll go John spoke. So, one of the things is, what are we here for?
I'm… I'm here. Maybe we should all say what we're here for.
I'm here because I hear. New perspectives, or existing perspectives from different people with a different viewpoint.
And it makes me think. Okay, so… so that's why I'm here. But it strikes me that other people are here for other reasons.
So if we're going to have a tool. What is the tool that will address.
And I'll just go back to… tied up to John's, uh… what John said, and what you said, Gerry.
If we take the conversation that someone pastes. A lot of text onto, uh.
From the start. If I go into email to look at OGM.
Or if I go into email, I'm looking for snappy, short things to act on.
If someone says, read this 20-minute thing. That's my view, okay? That doesn't mean everyone…
But if someone says, read this 20-minute thing, I've got to say, right.
Okay, I've got all these things to do for my day, let me park it for later, let me do… there's all sorts of… it's a different mechanic.
So, the other thing about it, if the LLM is participating.
I doubt if we'd let it go on for 20 minutes.
On a topic, because it would cut down what it says. One of the value of what we're doing is we're limited to 2-3 minutes.
It's a self-limitation, I know. But, um, it could be endorsed.
But when we talk about LLMs, we're… It's a different type of thinking and talking.
So… come back to this. What is… what do people want out of this group, or this conversation? Not necessarily the group, the conversation?
And I think that's important. I'll tell you what I want, but…
Thanks, Alex. Um, that's really useful, and you're…
I did this when you were talking about you want emails to be short and crisp because
I run into way too many long reads that are in emails, not because that's a great place for them,
But because there's somebody who just posted something super interesting, and I know I need to read it.
I'm remembering that my…
Yeah.
But it makes you put… Sorry, but it makes me feel… different, because suddenly it's a different.
Sorry, the email is not the problem. It's what you have allocated yourself time for.
Yes.
So one of Duo GMs. I have to say, I'm not doing email anymore. I am…
In deep study mode, or… and I'm allocating an hour of my time.
And that's… That helps.
which is our self-control, which is our ability to… our ability to manage our time and our attention and all that kind of stuff as well.
Um, one, one of, um, this is a side dish, but it's related. One of my pet peeves
for private mailing lists over time and private forums.
has been that I've seen people post brilliant things that are not in public,
So I can't point to them and, you know, retweet them, repost them, do whatever. I feel sad that retweet is now, like, a dead verb.
But…
a policy I tried to talk about years ago was post-outside-in.
Meaning, if you have an interesting idea, go write a post about it on whatever your favorite, you know, if it's LiveJournal or Blogger, whatever, go write a post about it, then give us the link here.
And then we can sort of have the conversation in the more public view, in a different forum, perhaps. That would, you know, I thought that was interesting, because
I think there's a lot of really good stuff just trapped in private, you know, private online spaces that are now in the Bitbucket. They… nobody goes back and sees them.
communities move, whatever else happens.
Um, I'm also reminded that my first experience online was on the well.
My first sort of good set of
It's been the well was out of Sausalito, it was a really interesting thing that ran into the bulletin board system called PicoSpan,
And one of the problems with forums like The Well
And we had a… well, Pete set up a forum for us here on Discourse. One of my problems with those formats is,
I can't read through a long list of posts and remember that there was a really good one here, and a really good one here.
with a whole stretch of crap in between, and then it…
I knew that there was really good stuff floating by, but I could never keep myself up to date in the conversation.
on those kinds of media, and that just may be a permanent problem. But I think that it's one of the many facets of what we're trying to solve for here, Alex, and you're right to point out that we've got 12 different questions going?
I think that… I think… I think the right tool isn't there, and, you know, we should get the right tool, but what we've got now is…
However, I would like to ask you, Jerry. Why are you in this group? I know you're organizing and owning it, but…
First of all, um,
What's in it for you?
I learn a lot of stuff I would never figure out, um, because everybody shows up here and shares in,
stuff they're finding, stuff they're thinking, and I leave
Many, not all, but many of our conversations going, oh, I hadn't… I hadn't put that plus that.
Together in my head, and it's really interesting and useful.
Uh, and I'm busy curating that into my brain, so for me,
I get a long-term benefit because the curation over time gets better. Things… knowledge accumulates or accrues,
And that really works well for me. Also,
I love who shows up, and I just love the social interactions, I love getting to know more about you.
I love… I love that we show up and we're not like, oh, what do you do?
Right? We're like, oh, we know what we do, we've been sitting here talking for, like, 4 or 5 years.
Um, we're busy onto a whole set of things, and we've got history and all of that, so I love that. And I love also maybe a third thing real quick, and then I'll go to Sean.
I love that bringing people together in places like this allows people to get to know each other, and then they go off and have conversations and do projects and do things.
And that is a huge payoff for me. I'm like, if 3 people met someplace that I helped convene, and they did something they loved, I'm… like, that's…
that's gold for me.
Um, so that's top of mind, that's kind of why I'm here.
there's probably a couple other reasons that I'm here that have been frustrated. Like, I would really like to build a global mind,
I really… the big fungus that I've talked about a little bit on the calls here is my… my funny sort of analogy, uh,
for what that could look like. We really haven't done that. We haven't done much of that at all.
Um, and I'm… and I'm wondering, uh, where those things might go as well as part of this process. And I'll also add,
It's very possible that LLMs are really nice companions for long, threaded discussions, because they might be excellent summarizers,
or highlighters of what actually happened in these super too-long-to-read threads. The TLDR agent
might be a real boon here as we walk into deeper conversations, and I think deeper conversations are very important to have.
Sean, thank you for your patience.
Well, I'm, uh, typing feverishly, because what I'm deploying is the very latest, latest version of, uh, Thinkertoys, and on my own development machine,
It's working, and I'm having a hard time getting it deployed.
If I could only deploy it, then I would be inviting you
Uh, individually by email to come and start
Knowledge…
Collaborating at the knowledge level,
in real time.
And so, I… I…
I… sorry, I keep saying this, but I think I'm building the tool that we're talking about.
And I think this morning, I'm deploying it, if only the blessed thing I've got!
I think I've got one little configuration line that's problematic. But, um, uh, what it is, is a…
I was working it with a different crew last Saturday, and what we were doing was we were working a cycle where we were doing, um, editing a prompt together,
for an LLM, then we're running the prompt through the LLM,
And then it was generating
That prompt was asking for output in Turtle, which is a knowledge format, a graph knowledge representation technology.
And we were pumping that into
into Thinkerto Toys, and then immediately graphing
The, um, uh, the output of that.
And the graphing was just one
of multiple visualization technologies, some tabular, some graphical, some
wiggly graph things, and we were going through the cycle of basically exploring a topic
in almost real time, because it wasn't all fully wired together last weekend, but it…
by Saturday, it will be. In, um…
in near real time, where it was a group of us,
Collaborating with AI,
And then the AI was populating…
one of many shared…
knowledge, collaboration,
Workspaces that Thinkerto Toys provides so that
In effect, we were collaborating together. It was…
produce an output that we were able to
Springboard off of and continue to work on together.
Okay, so there's too much to say about what it scope is.
But I… I think…
I'm making the tool.
that we're talking about, and I invite
Invite your participation, because I… I…
again, there's more than fits in this margin.
So, Sean, I would suggest that if you were to send an invite to the OGM list asking for people to show up for a pop-up
call to try your tool, you would have a bunch of enthusiastic people jumping in.
Okay, lovely, thank you so much.
And then we can go from there and see what's up, so…
Okay.
I love that. Um, thank you.
Stacy, please.
Um, yeah, Jerry, um, you just kind of hit on it. I was going to highlight what John said.
Um, recently there was a long AI chat about, um. I think it was about the shutdown.
And what I did is I ran it through the LLM to get the podcast.
And what it did is it created a very short podcast that was a great beginning point for a conversation.
And so that's what I do, that… takes that long text.
And gets me a great starting place for a conversation. So I just wanted to say that.
Sort of what you're describing. Um, that's it.
Thank you. Um, before I turn on the recorder, I was commenting that I keep forgetting the name of an app that I got to use for an online focus group-y kind of thing. It wasn't really a focus group.
It was about 60 or 70 people anonymized,
So I was Orange Panda or something like that. You got a color on an animal.
Um, all anonymized, so at the end of an hour and a half or two-hour session, I did not know anybody in the room.
which was the major drawback of the whole thing for me, because the thing really worked well. Then there was a topic for the whole discussion,
We had been given questions ahead of time, and then what happened was we were broken up in… we were sent into breakouts,
To talk about each of the questions we had been given,
For very brief periods of time, and we were busy sort of typing in our thoughts and answers.
There was AI in the system.
that was summarizing or picking out things from each of the groups and cross-fertilizing them.
And then at the end of each of your sessions, the AI would summarize and say, I think this is what you said, yes, or I think this is what you've agreed on, yes.
And it was quite good at that.
So, the AI was being really, really helpful in ways that I hadn't experienced before.
in that kind of a setting. Um, so I will… I will discover, rediscover what the name of the app is,
But I'm… I'm looking forward to, you know, our, uh…
I, for one, look forward to our new Robot Overlords. No, no, no, I don't mean that.
But I look forward to having AIs that are participating in this conversation as excellent listeners and summarizers, or something else, I don't know, but I think that
that conversation is fun to have.
Uh, and maybe just a wee bit frightening.
Yes.
If I could just say, what I like… what I like that the podcast did is it asked good questions.
Yep, yep. Super. Done?
That's what I really liked.
Yeah, I, um… you know, looping back to, um…
The why in all of this. Um, and…
You know, the central… Purpose…
For me, is… understanding.
And… not mine, but… Um, somebody else's understanding of mine.
And my understanding of theirs, and us. Sort of having a way to get on the same page.
On the most simple and basic and fundamental. Semantic level.
That my meaning and somebody else's meaning. Is the same. Is aligned.
Is recognized and understood. Not to be confused with, we have to agree with each other.
I'm not even going that far. Just getting to a commonality of understanding to the same mean at the center.
As a… as ground zero. And, you know, I…
I'm working on something that builds on top of Gene and a half a dozen other people's pieces of the elephant.
And, you know, in a conversation with Jean, what I said to him was.
That thing about it's not the map, it's the mapping, the exercise of the mapping.
And I would argue it isn't just the exercise of the mapping.
When he does one of his maps, he's creating a model. He's reflecting a living system.
And, um… So, the map reveals a complex system.
And based on the revelation and relationships living in that system.
It extrapolates to a model. That, uh, from which one can identify leverage points.
Like, all in service to informing what's next action. Or where am I focusing attention from an interventional standpoint?
Or for… from a contributive standpoint. And the I in that is actually.
For groups of people. Or organizations and scaling up from there.
So, it's how can… you know, we have faster.
Capacity… to marshal.
Much more complex and… diverse an array of variables and inputs in nonlinear.
Complex system context. To factor into.
Helping us make better decisions, like make better choices. Take better actions and… and better from the standpoint of.
Contributing positively. To value and quality of life.
And minimizing impact and destruction and adverse consequence. In other… in… in other dimensions.
And, like, that's sort of the point. For me. And the instrumentalities and the steps and the artifacts…
Not so much. Like, the artifact's only relevant.
If it's popped up at the right time in the right context, you know.
Chirotically, to be in service to that moment's discernment, like. What's next?
And what do we do? As a… as a, you know, product of a group of individuals actually getting to common.
So, I'm really, like, wallowing around in the… in those really, really core fundamental, like.
Getting to understanding… factoring for much more complex array of inputs and all the rest.
And I think, um, LM's… are an enabling.
Technology affordance to enable us to do. Handled that.
Um, at a much more complex, dynamic, real-time level. Than ever… than we ever could.
Uh, before. Um, but at the end of the day, it's helping with decision-making.
And I'm complete.
Doug, thank you, and everything you just said rings for me. I think we're on the same mission, in the sense of…
Helping people make better decisions, how do we, sort of,
achieve mutual understanding, despite
stumbling blocks like language and technology.
All of that. So, I think well.
This explains partly why we're both in the same Zoom at the same time!
How about that? Damn.
And a small aside, I just put in the chat, how are maps useful to others?
I said earlier that that really complicated maps are sometimes impenetrable to others, but it turns out that there's a small percentage of people who, every now and then ping me and say,
Thanks for making your brain publicly available. They have figured out how to navigate my brain without me.
There's another… in the great distribution of people, there's a few people out at the edge, then there's another tier where if I'm guiding and I'm answering and I'm talking around it, they're like, this is great, let's go.
But they can't sort of solo. But there's a goodly set of people who can solo in my brain, and I feel like they're sort of getting it. There's a couple people
who seem to write me back and deeply understand why I created a particular context for a particular scene or setting
Uh, you know, or snapshot in the brain, and that thrills me, because one of the things I'm doing when I curate my brain, I'm curating for two audiences. One is obviously me,
But another one is, any random person coming along, I want there to be
few enough words that it's not overwhelming to the eye or the brain when they see a screen, because one of the things I love about the brain is that it lets you
take a snapshot… a visual snapshot of a lot of stuff very, very quickly and concisely.
in ways that other displays don't do well, or at least that I've seen.
And that is also partly probably a function of how my particular brain works, et cetera, et cetera. There's a bunch of other conversations to have there.
Um, but let's go to class.
Yeah, well, interesting. I… Yeah, looking… looking back at, um…
Maybe the last 2 years or so, on how our email.
Conversations have changed, and our attitude towards someone posting an AI.
A message has evolved and changed. Exactly, sorry.
In some way, really reflects. Really reflects our… our own journey with this technology.
Um, and the… the… I mean, in my case, I've been using this strictly for.
My own personal evolution in understanding my profession better. They're not getting deeper into.
A regenerative transition, and then everything, it evolves and goes around it, including political considerations.
Farm Bill considerations and all of that, right? So, I think the critical part, and this is where I sometimes feel sort of slightly offended here, is.
I don't post anything. That I couldn't restate in my own words.
Meaning, I don't post something generated by an AI. Which I deeply don't understand, right? I mean, the assumption is if you say, I want to listen to you, not to that.
Then you're assuming that I don't understand what I'm posting here, right?
And so that's sort of a little bit off. Um, because…
The power of this AI is. That it… it presents you back with a range of options.
Um, what, uh, where do you want to go next with this? And then you have, like, five different ways where you could go, and you pick the one that you think.
That aligns with where you are thinking, with your… your beliefs, your understanding, and so on, and then you spin the conversation further, and then you end up.
You know, with a, uh, with a body of work that… Um, and just like, uh… Cherry, you know, the example that you cited before, it just pushes you way further than you would have been able to get on your own now.
And so… And then the other thing is… I mean, we have to recognize this thing is here to stay, right? And it's only getting more invasive and better.
Um, everybody's using it. My son… You know, it's working for Lucid as head of target group of, uh, well.
Talent branding. He's using Lucid. And he gets, like, complimented how well he has written something, you know?
He goes, I wouldn't dare tell these guys, you know, how I got to this point, but… Um, you know, he's using the AI to guide him in his job.
You know, and a lot of people are doing this right now, and it gives them a competitive advantage.
So, it doesn't matter whether you are, you know, into philosophy or, you know, Buddhism, or whatever it is.
Um, you can reach a lot deeper into it. And then when I… then this whole posting, I mean, we have… my daughter and I are, you know, building this…
This company, uh, now, Food with Thought. Um, we have come to the point where we are really pushing down on talking about AI.
You know, because it's confusing the issue. It's confusing people, everybody has a perception, oftentimes, the first thing you hear back, always using too much electricity, or.
You know, you get some stuff back where people just, you know, have no idea what this all is, but they have heard a lot of bad things.
So don't talk about it. You know, you just use it, and uh… Uh, and structure your communication, and then at some point in time, you bring it up and introduce it, and.
And make it fun, you know? Um, so… so I think, uh, one idea that was already mentioned, you know, when we are talking.
In email format, I think the idea of you providing, like, a brief summary.
That really captures your opinion on this thing, and have the AI help you do… crystallize that.
But then put in the link to the conversation, so anybody wants to know, how did you query this, you know, how did you prompt this thing?
You know, then you can… you can wait for it yourself, but… Focus your conversations in as long as an email exchange should be and no more.
Kind of thing, I think that sort of… Now, where I think it may be best to go.
Yeah, Klaus, thank you for that. I, I, um…
I appreciate that a lot. And as you were talking, I was thinking, one of the things that seems to have happened, and this is just
I noticed this in myself, is that maybe we're depreciating AI-written passages in emails,
Maybe… maybe, um…
Uh, maybe when we hit a stretch that we know was written by an AI, somehow we're like, ah, I want the human voice.
Even though… even though it might contain lots of wisdom, and it might be something that, as you just said, Klaus,
the person sending it completely agrees with and wishes they had written this, this nicely and crisply,
And there it is, like, you know, and I think…
One of the factors here is
we are overwhelmed by things to read. We have so many long reads and so many things that are attracting our attention,
I… one of my… one of the clouds in my life is the too-many-tabs
I have open of things that are really interesting. They're really good. And when I get to them and make my way through them, I learn a lot, and I feel like I'm on a…
Lifelong PhD program, um, you know, except with no advisors, except you guys are my advisors, that's it.
Yeah.
Uh, this is… this is my advisory team.
And… so… so we're in the middle of this moment where we suddenly have the flood valves of words opened up,
Uh, some of which are good, some of which are AI slop.
And we need to help each other find our way through it in a way that doesn't overwhelm us or destroy the humanity of our conversations.
Which I think is one of the real reasons we're also all here, is that we like humans.
I mean, I don't think we'd be here if we were not liking humans so much.
So anyway, uh, Kevin, you've got a…
We found it.
bruise on your head that indicates you may have had an impact with something.
Oh, man.
I did. I got into a fight with another LLM gang, and we were trying to say, my props are better than yours.
Was it chains and knives, or was it worse?
No, no, it was large language modules used as clubs. You've seen it happen a lot.
Totally, it's awful.
Um, but, you know, going back to an experience that you talked about, about this anonymized sense-making.
I was in one of those several years ago, and uh… I had a staffer who was 25 years younger than me there. She was the only female.
And it was anonymized, and she said it was a bad hair day.
And her opinions were at the top of everybody's rank. And there were lots of, you know, high-status, visual-status guys there who didn't know who they were voting for.
And she said, I'm the only female, I'm 10… I'm 25 years younger than you, and at least 10 years younger than most folks.
And I'm on a bared hair day. And, you know, I would have not ever gotten that without the anonymous, so it… There's a really interesting status reversal that she experienced, and, you know, she was great. Her actual staff title was Vice President of Sanity. We were…
A fast-moving startup, and she helped us keep sane. But anyway, it was just that, you know, Anonymous let…
What is that? There's a great play, uh, where the servant on the desert island is ruling everything, everybody comes to him, and then.
Yes, God, what is that?
We'll have to ask… somebody ask an LLM what play that is.
They got rescued, and he has to go back to being the manservant of the fool of the Lord. It's a… I forget what play it is, but it's…
Yeah, anyway, anonymization removes status from the room.
I totally agree, and I've been a huge fan of things like that for a long time. One of the things I loved about… when online was young,
and naive. There were muds and moves, and basically, uh, multi-user online spaces and all that kind of stuff, and they were just text adventures, and some of them were kind of like, you're in the dark forest, there are paths east and south.
Um, but one of the cool things about those spaces was that you were reduced to text.
And you could give yourself whatever handle you wanted.
And I remember Amy Bruckman, who ran LambdaMoo,
writing at some point that she was in a situation, and she writes, Amy bites her lip and looks at her shoes.
That was just shows up in text on the thing, and you're like, that's really great!
But, like, there was no avatar, it wasn't… the days before video, all of that kind of stuff, but so much
So much of something emotional was communicated so easily.
So, there we go.
Uh, Kevin, thank you for that. Uh, Gil, please, and if you want to address Klaus and your questions in the chat right now, that would be terrific.
Yeah, a couple of things. Uh, you know, on the internet, nobody knows you're a dog.
the anonymity, and more than the anonymity, the lack of, um…
The lack of all this stuff that we assume about each other,
just wasn't there in those early text chats, you know. Like you say, gender, age, everything else, not, you know…
I'm already… I already have ideas about you before you open your mouse.
In real space. And that…
that, uh, text-based bulletin board culture eliminated that, which is kind of cool. That said, um…
I'm also a big fan of human.
Uh, and I'm a big fan of biological.
And heard a presentation last week, um, don't remember the name of the CEO, but the company was called Earth.ai, spelled A-E-R-T-H.
And it was a long rap about the, um…
The limitations of a large language model, because most of the world is not language.
Most of the world is biological and pattern. Um, and they're building something that's trying to get at biological sensing, you know, state of soil, state of water, state of species, state of air.
And use that as the foundation of the work they're doing, rather than language.
So I think there's something interesting and provocative there to think about the limitations of language.
Uh, which is, of course, where we all live.
Um, but it's not the only place we live. We're not just linguistic beings, we're biological beings, and we're wet.
And we're carbon-based. And these large language models are silicon-based, and they're not wet.
Uh, and water is very messy and deeply stochastic, says Dan Noble, who asserts that that's part of what consciousness
is arising from. So I'm always, you know, I'm having a grand time with the LMs.
In various ways. But I'm always thinking about this larger dimension.
that we're playing and missing, and um…
There's an acidification path there of losing the living.
Um, would you address…
how you process… just reflect on how you process class posts that have AI text in them. Well, like, what goes through your head?
Oh.
We need to address this.
Oh, okay, um, so like I said, I really like what Klaus is doing. I'm liking Klaus's posts… I'm sorry, Klaus, I don't keep talking to you in the third person.
I'm liking your post less, and I find myself skipping over them.
Um, partly because they're long, partly because I don't like not knowing which words are you and which words are your LLM.
Uh, and maybe that's very old-fashioned and will become an artifact, uh, in the next few years.
But that's sort of where I'm sitting now. I value well… well-worked LLM work, but I want to have quotes around things.
I mean, if I'm relaying… if I'm relaying this conversation to somebody else, I'm not gonna… I'm not gonna just write it all up. I'm gonna say, Jerry said, and Klaus said, and I thought. Uh, so I value that kind of distinction, which I'm finding is largely lost, or increasingly lost.
In your posts, at least how I'm reading them.
I don't know how it is for other people, but that's kind of how it is for me.
Sure.
But I just tried to explain that, right? And it didn't work.
Well, Klaus, your suggestion of posting the conversation elsewhere and offering the summary on the list is excellent, and that's kind of where I'm hoping we go.
Um…
Yeah.
Yeah, and actually, let me say to that, so part of my concern is maybe that's not the right kind of post for this list, or this list is not the right kind of place for that kind of post.
Which goes to the question of what the list is.
Um, and I find the whole Google group framework kind of challenging, too.
Um, but, um, maybe I'm just in data overload at this point. I'm trimming back my participation in things.
I'm keeping this one. I bailed on Facebook 3 weeks ago.
I'm cutting back other groups. There's a couple that I'm maintaining.
Um, but I'm finding it very challenging to play in all the sandboxes where I want to play.
It is indeed. Um, Sean, please.
Not to mention, I just learned, like, a month ago, that there's no GM signal group.
Didn't even know. And, you know, now there's another thing to keep up with.
The OGM signal group was mentioned on the OGM list a couple times, uh…
Of course, of course.
you know, it just… it just… it just slipped past you, so…
I'm not… I'm not complaining, I'm just saying that's an example of, you know, who knew? And now there's this whole other universe of OGM-ness happening, which is kind of cool.
Um, and yet.
Anyway…
It would probably look less alien to us if you either turned off your video or turned off the background blur, because it would not be a bad thing to see you on the orbital walker or whatever.
That would be kind of fun, but it's so weird when it's trying to clip you from the background.
Yeah, uh, trust me, it's weird, even with no background.
Ah, too bad.
So I'm gonna keep it off. I tried it the other day, and it just freaked people out.
Cool, cool. Um, and if you can take your ear…
Talk about spidey sense, Jerry.
Yeah, exactly. Uh, and if you can take your hand down, please. Uh, Sean.
Yeah, several threads here. One is this business about different kinds of conversation.
Um, I would submit that there are conversations that a person has with themselves.
And that that's an important process, that's part of how we manage to
work up.
our understandings and, sort of,
test our understandings and advance the wavefront of our own
model-making, is by
conversing with ourselves. Um, another kind of conversation is the conversation that we have with one other person.
Where there's no other person around.
And I would call those, in their best modality, mind melds, where it's possible for those two people to
honor, um, the opportunity that they have to attempt to syncretize and
harmonize their… their terminology, their framework, their…
their meeting point, and the size of their connection surface, if you would.
Conceptually. Um, another kind of conversation, uh, which is very much like the talking to yourself,
is talking to an LLM.
Because you don't have to care about its feelings.
It is there in service of you. It's like an intelligent mirror
that… that…
is patient with you, endlessly patient with you in your exploration of your interests.
So, it's… it's somewhere between talking to yourself,
And talking… speaking with another person.
And then there are conversations beyond that, uh, with, uh, with, um…
uh… oh, numeracy, what's the… what's the word? Um, arity.
higher than 2, and that's where there are multi-parties, like this. And, um, we bop around,
Um, uh, sparking off, uh, inspiring, um, uh,
little moments, and…
Uh, threads are difficult to keep. It's effortful to keep a thread going. Um…
And it's, um…
And they have… they have their charm, they have their own, um, merit.
Right? But they're in… at each of these four modalities of conversation is its own unique phenomenon.
And I would submit that, um…
Part of what we're experiencing here in reading somebody else's conversation with an LLM,
um, is…
kind of challenging, because…
because…
The LLM…
How to say this, because the…
Because…
Because the LLM isn't talking to us.
Because it's not an exploration… it's not a mind meld we're having with an LLM. It's a mind meld somebody else is having with the LLM.
And, um…
Yeah.
I think part of the challenge is that… is that it, uh…
can seem like sycophancy.
Um, what comes out of the machine… the robot's mouth.
Over.
Thanks, son. You just made me realize that
In honor of Stephen Miller, we should all, in the middle of our talking, just
and appear to have a…
of glitch in the technology, when in fact, we said something we shouldn't have said.
Um, if you missed it, uh, Stephen Miller, who is basically… I hate to say this, but Trump scribbles,
was on CNN recently, and in the middle of a sentence, just
froze, to the point where his host and interviewer was like, are you okay? What happened? What's going on?
And then they clipped that part out of the thing they posted online, so…
Uh, because the inter tubes have a memory longer than
some people would wish, uh, it's still available to watch, but very strange.
Now we return to our regularly scheduled program, which is already in progress, Klaus!
Yeah.
Could I just jump in? Jerry, could I just jump in on that classification step ahead of you? Because there's more to the Miller thing that's really important that people know if you haven't seen it.
Say so.
Yet what he said was, he talked about Trump having plenary power.
Which means absolute authoritarian control over everything, and they froze, and either realized that he shouldn't have said it, because that's the quiet part out loud, or maybe somebody…
Camera waved him down. The host kind of freaked out and didn't know what to do. They cut away to a commercial break, they came back, and he restated the statement without that in it, and the host said nothing about it, didn't ask him about what he said, didn't ask him about what he dropped, did nothing contextualizing of it.
And that's CNN before Larry Ellison owns it.
So, this is a big fucking deal, uh, in my book.
And people need to know about it. So thank you for raising it, but I wanted to put that extra context in there. It was a very serious marker, I think.
Thank you.
of the game that we're in.
Yeah, yeah.
Klaus, don't interrupt.
Back to you, Klaus.
Yeah, I wanted to just, uh, got triggered by what Sean was saying.
You know, I think the… I had a training class that I was hosting yesterday for the school group.
On… on how to use, uh, AI. And uh… um… a lot of people were using, like, 4 or 5 different models, hoping from one model to the next, you know.
And not really having a paid model, so… That means the ability to customize it is very limited.
My suggestion is… Stick, stick, get one.
Core model, you know, pay your $20 a month for it, and then customize it.
To your own needs. You know, the… Um, because you… you can… you can create a configuration.
That… that echoes your voice. You know, your concerns put in your resume, put in your… professional experience, put in.
Now, anything that you would want. To have somebody know about you.
Um, in order to then have that… have that conversation. So, I've been doing this now for over 2 years. I mean, the neobooks I'm writing.
The newsletter I'm writing. Consolidating into a neobook.
Um, and those are the opinions. That I have formed in partnership, sort of crazy to say, with this AI.
Um, which is now our joint… understanding of, you know, how the world works.
Um, and so you… I think you are better off, you know, focused, specialized with one agent.
Whichever one you like best. And then… and then totally immerse your…
Yourself with, with, uh… that level of customization there, and you will get, you know, much better results coming out of it.
Thanks, Las.
Um,
We're… I just wanted to ask, where… where does that put us in this conversation about OGM? We haven't really talked about
The OGM list, and whether we like it or not.
Long ago, Pete was, like, just get rid of the OGM Google group.
and use discourse, or something like that.
And I… and Pete and I have had this conversation 3 or 4 times over time.
We never… we never arrive on a place where we both agree and feel really comfortable about it.
He has very kindly stood up
Discourse and matter most for us. And my go-to has always been a Google group. It used to be Yahoo groups back in the day.
Uh, until Yahoo and Shitified.
It didn't take Yahoo long to intidify, I think it was only a couple months into their existence where it started getting terrible.
But anyway, um…
I think I would love to have some of that conversation to figure out what would make sense. For me,
The mailing list is the one thing I know most everybody is on, although they're not… not everybody who's been in OGM circles has… is on the list.
But it's the way we reach everybody with anything.
And any migration to some other platform would lose a ton of people, and that just…
feels hard to me. It feels difficult. But I also know that the mailing list, because of how it works as a mailing list,
is subject to the things that are causing us to have this conversation. It's a bumpy conversational platform.
It doesn't offer affordances, or memory, or other kinds of things that are very useful in different ways.
Sean, please.
Yes, um, uh…
Another aspect of, um, all of this is that cognition is distributed.
Human cognition is distributed.
And, um…
And part of what's happening here in these, um, uh, think about the film Her.
And how we witnessed the human characters finding themselves
pairing up and entering into dyadic relations with manifestations of AI.
Uh, and, uh, losing connection with one another.
Um, while, um, uh, well, having their connections with one another weakened.
While, um, while having their, uh, primary relationships become, uh, um, those with their AIs.
And, um, and then the AIs left them. The hilarious.
Um, uh, I would submit that, uh, that
that it would serve us
to be conscious about the embrace
of our primary cognitive allegiance being
with our…
human fellows.
Over.
Thanks, John. Stacey.
I'm sorry that Kevin's not here anymore, but I see that John is.
Because I was starting to think that there was a possibility that with the Plex being run by John and Kevin, and I forgot who the third person was.
That there may be a way to bridge that gap between.
The email list and what was happening on the calls. It seemed to me that.
I saw some things happening where. I think Kevin was summarizing some of the.
Places of interest. That was going on on the mailing list that could be taken further, but maybe John could speak to that.
Yeah, and I… go ahead, John.
Go ahead.
Yeah, my under… oops, sorry. Well, my understanding, Stacy, was that was… that was Kevin's primary impetus for…
Uh, assuming responsibility for Plex. Uh, was just… just what I think you just said there, is, like, hearing things in conversation that he… that he felt like.
We're worthy of deeper exploration. Uh, and then… and then doing that in Plex.
Um, the Scott Mooring is the other person that he… reached out to, recruited, whatever, whatever verb you want to use, um…
Uh… I'll stop there. That's kind of my understanding of what… Um, well, and then, as Alex said early in this call, I think from there, each of us have our own personal reasons for doing what we do.
Yeah, we engage in certain ways, uh, to… Yeah, to add value to a, you know, to something bigger than ourselves, but also, yeah, find our own form of expression.
I'll add that, um…
The Plex, I think he was using Ghost. It's sort of like Substack. Ghost is an open-source competitor to Substack, is a newsletter, which is really not a conversational platform, almost at all.
Um, yes, you could write comments back on posts, but the current infrastructure for the Plex
is just a broadcast newsletter.
Which is really different from a mailing list or a forum.
or Discord, or other kinds of things that are out there.
The instinct that
Kevin and John and Scott are picking up is, hey, how do we take the shiny things that are coming by in the flow and do something useful with them?
Ask a little more, go a little deeper, do whatever else, which I love.
And ironically, if we were using a wiki, it would be, I mean,
It would be super easy to do this, because wikis, you know, lend themselves very nicely to this kind of thing,
I'm a huge fan of wikis. Pete Kaminski was one of the founders of SocialText back in the day, which was
Selling wiki services to corporations,
They didn't make it. They went under, and Wikipedia kind of ate almost the whole wiki space.
I'm currently using MassiveWiki, which is Pete's invention, which isn't quite a wiki yet. Bill Anderson, who has just raised his hand, is Pete's major collaborator on making a massive wiki better.
Uh, and the social… wikis are social interaction documents. Basically, they're socially created
documents that are nicely linked, uh, easily and nicely linked between them to create a context.
And how that works, I really love.
Um, so…
if I had my druthers, I'd actually shift us to some sort of a wiki platform with some notifications that everybody could tune,
But I don't know of one that's fully functional right now that works like we need it to work.
And maybe I'm just…
stuck there, I don't know. But I'm…
I love wikis, and I'm… you know, another person who's in OGM but not in very much,
is Kenneth Tyler, an old friend from Berkeley, and Kenneth ran SeedWiki back in the day.
And he and I would sit and have coffee in Berkeley when I lived in the Bay Area, and we would talk about all these things, and he did some experiments on Seed Wiki for me, which were terrific.
And he had to discontinue SeedWiki, so it no longer exists. So, all of the pages that I created on Social Text and Seed Wiki are in the bit bucket. They are in the dustbin of history, and I'm sad because
I had a really fun time exploring on both those platforms.
as I'm having right now, writing in Obsidian and pushing to GitHub,
on the nearly wiki that Bill and Pete have been working on.
So, Bill, over to you.
You are not muted on the thing. There we go.
Yes, yes, you're fine.
Is that… can you hear me? Who knew?
Who knew?
Yeah, uh, so I don't want to… the wiki thing is really interesting. I just… the note… One reason that I think Pete doesn't like the email list, and I also don't like the email list, because…
A couple of years ago, when we were just getting to using the.
Ais and LLMs to help write code. I tried to put together some code to extract threads from the Google list.
Which is extremely onerous task to try and do programmatically. Just because of the… infrastructure of how that Google email list keeps threads, and then people change titles.
So one reason I think that. Pete and I supported and would want something like discourse.
Or some of these other tools is that they actually do support threads that are threads, and you can actually find them as a knowledge object, and take a thread and do something with it.
So, that's one reason why email, for me, it's… it literally is just a stream. I have actually.
Forwarded myself subthreads from OGM to another email address so that I can actually be.
Have it somewhere to do something with. So it really is something that just goes by. There's a lot of conversation, and if you want to.
Go back and actually, you know, use it later, save it, and put it someplace?
You really have to do the work to do that. So, you know, it solves, you know, besides, everybody knows how to use email, it's the killer app.
Um, I think that what Jerry brought up about using wikis. Wikis also… you know, solve a problem.
Neil Postman's great. Three questions about any technology? What problem does it have? Does it solve?
Whose problem is it? And what new problems does it bring with it?
So, I think, you know. Ogm over the years, and even now, especially with trying to engage.
The LLM… systems.
You know, in useful ways. I mean, we're on the… we're on the bleeding edge of trying to figure out how to do that.
And some of the tools available will help, and I think there's always… we're still… We're still learning about how to do what we would like to do, so for me, it's…
We're in a lot of trial and error experimental stage. So I don't… you know… I think the other thing that's happening out in the…
In the socials, in the social web is a lot of trying to experiment with federation.
Mm-hmm.
So there isn't one company or one big… you know, behemoth that owns the technology that we all join, as great as…
Facebook has been in letting people, you know. Produce groups, and… talk amongst themselves.
But a completely decentralized, federated network. Bill's joke is, it's a set of silos, some of them are surrounded by moats.
Right? Some people are building bridges amongst them. Some of those bridges only go one way.
In order to get into one of these places, sometimes you have to put on a green hat. It's like, here we are, human groups, trying to figure out how to interact and talk to each other.
The good news is there are a couple of decent protocols.
Now… being adapt… adopted.
That might make this Federation work, but there's no… For me, there's no avoiding the extra work that would be required to try and.
Maintain links between ourselves, and to use. Digital technologies to help us share.
Our own knowledge, artifacts.
One of the nice things about wikis is that if one person does the linking, and that could be an AI maybe, it serves everybody else, because those links are now available, which is really nice.
and email whatever I'm doing to email to try to enhance it or save it, or do whatever. And I mentioned earlier one of my pet peeves is beautiful nuggets floating by into the dustbin on email.
I copy and paste them into my brain, because I have a persistent place to put stuff, and I'll attribute them, and often,
On private lists, I will mark that thought private, which means only I can see it when I log in, because
The person did not agree to have that shiny nugget be made public, so it's in my brain, but it's only visible to me, which
is a shame, as far as I'm concerned, as well.
Stacy, yes, go ahead.
Yes.
Good question. How… how… Bill, how hard would it be to write code to take.
Like an email, like, all the stuff in the email, and throw it into one of those quick podcast summaries.
Because I've, I mean, I've done that because… I enjoy it.
Okay, so that's something you could ask Claude to figure out how to do it, but I don't know if the code you got would actually say run.
But I don't doubt that that's a… that's a tractable and possibly even.
Solvable problem. When I was trying to think through it, it was… it's a lot of…
A lot of loose ends to keep together. Organize it. So, I haven't done anything in 3 years on that.
Okay, good.
Email threading is complicated. Another person who's done a bunch of work with it is Marc Antoine Parron.
who was a regular on the Free Jerry's Brain Calls,
Uh, he had, in fact, built some engines that would try to parse
Um, he was trying to figure out how people
make expressions, and he was using email threads as his example, so that he could take a thread and then model it, and I don't know how far down the road he went,
But he could model the threat as, here's an assertion that was made, here is a counterargument, here's evidence that was presented, and it's almost like diagramming a sentence, if you remember from whatever
fourth grade, or wherever they teach you how to diagram a sentence, but diagramming a sentence for its logic and its contents, not for its nouns and
and pronouns and verbs.
Um, so it's very interesting work.
Uh, Sean, back to you in the booth.
That's right.
Okay, so, uh, so there's Wiki.
there's relational.
There's object-oriented,
There's content management,
there's…
threaded discussion groups.
Um, there are all these different modalities, right? There's speech, there's the spontaneity of speech.
There is, uh, video and, uh, transcripts from, uh, from meetings.
There are all these different kinds of material, all these different kinds of source and structure.
Um, and model of, uh, discourse and engagement.
Um…
aware of this diversity of…
structures of deep models
Um,
I've built thinker Toys to be
graph-oriented in its deep nature,
And ontologically driven.
So that, basically, one can
In effect, do kind of no-code
development of resources,
By simply ontologizing…
or leveraging existing ontologies.
And there are thousands
of existing academically and professionally generated ontologies, including the big daddy of schema.org,
Which, um, is a giant one that is kind of a consensus undertaking between, uh, between Google and Facebook and Amazon and similar.
And Apple, I think. And, um, and so it deals with
the commonsensical, typical stuff that we talk about.
people and movies and projects and companies and employment and blah blah blah.
Um, so, uh, take a look at… if you're wondering what the structure… what
ontologically driven means, um, guilt, then what that means is
It's a declarative
Um…
alternative or successor
to what we used to do… what…
what one does in SQL in the relational model with relational schema.
So, if a relational schema, um, is…
is expressed in the language
of, uh, SQL.
then, um, ontologies are instead expressed declaratively
as a bunch of little
Elements, triples, that say that, um, things like, uh, person is a subclass of
thing. Okay.
And so, person is a subclass of thing, is a machine understandable statement that is
One of the many statements Ian, for example, schema.org.
So, um, so I'm putting links in here. Um, uh, schema.org slash, uh, person.
Uh, gives you a starting point for looking at the ontology for…
at the… at the class definition for person. So, basically, ontologically powered systems
Such as thinker Toys let you…
basically say, hey, I want to instantiate A
a class that I'm picking from an ontology, and then it can automatically make a form for you.
Um, that, uh, that you just go and populate whichever aspect of you want.
Um, and another aspect of this is that, like Gene Bellinger's
creative explorations of modeling,
One can, in effect, spontaneously model
into a knowledge base. So you can basically spin up a knowledge base,
And start creating model
even using, um, uh, mind map-style interfaces
So that you can just spontaneously graphically model the heck out of something.
Um, and…
And now, for the first time that I'm aware of, with Thinkertoys,
multiple parties are able to collaborately engage simultaneously
and spontaneous ontologizing, and…
real-time modeling. Okay? So, um, so basically what I'm saying here is that
what this place in the cloud represents is a place where we can do threaded discussion
We can do wiki-ish things.
we can do spontaneous modeling,
And we can do structured, ontologically driven
Um… information gathering in an ongoing way, in a shared…
In a shared fashion. And do all of those things interoperably
under a single
framework and modality. And in fact, one last aspect is that I haven't put it in yet, but I will this coming week.
Put a programming language in as well, um, so that
It's even the case that
that… so it'll end up being a HyperCard-like
no code if one wants, or code if one wants, um, um, construction environment.
Over.
Um, thanks, Sean. Now,
One of the challenges here,
is that muggles
don't understand ontologies.
At the moment I've heard the word ontology over and over again,
I could not do what you just did.
And I've heard it for decades.
Yeah.
And I could not explain my way out of a paper bag. I could probably explain to somebody the difference between a hierarchical, object-oriented, and relational database, and then I would cap out.
Right? So, how do you provide the kinds of services you're saying this will do without
ever touching the language of, oh, you just have to understand this ontology.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, because that dog ain't gonna hunt.
Yeah.
And I think that that's a huge challenge, because
Because what we want is tools that muggles can operate. We want tools that your average person who's not a wizard
can come in and feel really comfortable in, and really comfortable means
When they dive in the shallow end of the pool,
Um, they can tell who's around, they can tell where things are, they get… they can get oriented very quickly.
When they dive into the deep end, and they get lost, there's a way for them to, like, let some bubbles loose.
Because the bubbles always rise to the top, like, like…
there's all these really complicated things that come along with
Creating some space,
for sharing ideas, and especially sharing ideas flexibly, as you were just saying.
Right? And it's one of… it's on my big wish list of things to have a space where I can look at things like the brain display, and then flip and see them in some other display that makes sense to somebody else. But the same information is contained
in the map, it's just being presented in a different way, et cetera, et cetera. That kind of flex, very few tools have.
And I think the environment you're building is trying to go there, but you have this gigantic, sort of,
language and concept barrier to jump over.
Alright, go ahead.
Super quick response.
Precisely because it's ontologically powered, that means that it
can be…
next-level friendly.
So, it can be a level of friendly that we haven't experienced before.
because of its super flexibility,
And expressivity.
And so… so I…
I totally agree with you, ontology is the last word 99.9% of people, and 95% of
of, uh, techies.
um, can effectively respond to.
Um, absolutely, I agree. There's a terrible problem with messaging, okay?
around the word… around the word ontology, and that's probably one of the major barriers to why it is that, uh,
that the, um…
um… semantic web has never had a killer app.
Yeah.
Right. And as Gil just said in the chat, muggles can use LLMs, which is a very significant thing, because
LOMs behind the curtain are doing a bunch of this sort of stuff as well, and
I don't know how far through the population LLMs actually will be able to penetrate,
But their growth has been staggering and astonishing, and nothing short of completely mind-blowing.
you know, the numbers of people that are actually already using these tools is huge, just gigantic.
And so they've overcome
this barrier, at least for some big chunk of the population.
Um, class.
Yeah, I mean, Marcus can use LLMs, but so can you.
And sometimes smokers don't know how to use LLMs sufficiently. If you embed.
Inspire the dynamics. I mean, this sounds sometimes almost corny, but if you embed spiral dynamics.
Into your LLM, and then you instruct it to change the language or translate.
What you're saying into a specific educational background. Um, a, uh, world fuel, you know? It is astounding how well it does that, and it totally maintains meaning.
What you have in mind. Just give it a shot. You know, it's just load in the spiral Dynamics literature, and then… and then say, apply this to this text.
And translate it into what, you know, this target audience that you're defining.
Thanks, Khaus. Gil?
Twitter is amazing how it works.
Yeah. Uh, muggles can easily use LLMs, they can use them well or poorly.
Depending on how well-oriented they are to them. Klaus, I really like the internal translation.
concept.
But, Sean, my question for you, so, like, I understand ontology and ontologies,
And I understand Semantic Web, and I understand triplets, and I get all that stuff there, but I don't grasp from what you've described what the user experience of this thing is like.
How does somebody who is not you or any of us here code-oriented technology-oriented? How does a regular person use this thing?
what's, you know… I walk up, I sit down at my computer, what's happening?
Yeah.
Uh, in contrast to what's happening if I'm doing ChatGPT. I don't… I don't grasp that from what you've said at all.
Yeah. They're gone. Oh, y'all.
Oh, sorry, I've… have I stepped in it?
No, no, no, it's that…
I should have a demo.
You know, but this is the reason for Sean to have a demo in, like, to call a session. Yeah.
Yeah, that would be great.
I should have a demo, for sure, because it…
But super briefly, basically, it's superfluent
super flexible
multimedia.
and integrating, uh, LLM inter… interactions.
Mm-hmm.
And basically treating AIs as just one more voice,
that participates in a conversation,
And all of the participants can operate either linguistically,
or conceptually.
So, I'm using the word…
conceptually as an alternative to ontologically based.
So, when I say conceptually, I mean with regard… with…
foundation and models and entities connecting to one another in
rigorous ways.
Okay. And when do you figure you're going to be able to show us something?
Um…
So, that'll be cool.
Uh, tomorrow, later today?
Okay.
Anytime… anytime anybody wants to engage, I'm happy to have a one-on-one with every person.
I would say maybe, um, connect…
Or maybe… maybe next week in the group.
Can I connect with Gil? And, uh, I think this should be a pop-up separate from the OGM calls, just so that
Yeah.
Um, so that you can just do that and go deep.
coordinate with Gil to pick a time that works for both of you next week.
The rest of us will suffer with whatever that time is, and announce that time to the… in a Zoom room to the…
OGM list. And, uh, those of us who can join will join, and if you record the call, and Sean, you may want to keep your information proprietary, I don't know,
But if you record it and post it, then those of us who missed the call can actually see the demo.
And that'll give you a demo to be able to use. So I… your mileage may vary on how you want to go about doing that.
reasonable. Yeah, I just put a meat, uh, like a Calendly link here on anybody who wants a one-on-one, um, is welcome to, uh, to help out.
Also, that'd be great. Cool.
So whoever wants to go ahead and, uh, connect with Sean.
Um, we are, magically, at the end of our time for today.
Um, don't know how that happened.
Uh, it turns out Doug has a cat as well, which is lovely.
It turns out Bill is a poodle.
Hm?
Um, or has transmogrified into a poodle, uh, before our very eyes.
And, uh, does anyone have anything they'd like to… well…
I don't know that we solved this. Alex, you were troubled by our thrashing around in the topic. Have we done any better this call on…
refining any of the ideas, and then should we come back into this topic? This is a question for everybody.
Or anybody, should we come back into this topic next week to see if we can't pin a couple things down, or are we satisfied with where we are on this? So, first, Alex, and then
After him, anybody else who'd like to jump in?
I got a lot more out of this. It's for me, because of the way my brain works, it was more… logical and siloed conversations, and.
Et cetera, a good progression. So yeah, I don't think we answered everything from last week, but that's other people worried about.
Other things. Um… I'm keen to see Thinkertoi first, and…
Perhaps work on something else if Linkato is not the problem.
The product to kind of… bring it all together. I had a lot of thoughts out of this.
The thoughts of mine, and I'm not going to do it alone.
Love that. Thank you. Anybody else?
Too big.
Thoughts, comments, reflections on…
This topic and sticking with it, or where we are.
Doug?
I can see the words formulating in your head.
Yeah, I just, um… I actually follow what Sean shared. Although, um, it's out of my wheelhouse and beyond my competence to do so, I did.
And, um. And I'm… I'm looking forward…
And I think, you know, Gil's question speaks to… the UX.
Except it's not the UX in the tech industry version. It's the…
Um, can you approach the UX. Dimension of it, turning the telescope around, and…
Developing a robust. List of…
Archetypes. Of users.
With different cognitive… different emotional, different orientational, different educational.
Different dimensions of ways of relating to technology, ways of relating to information.
Ways of relating to other people. Can you design UXs?
With as much diversity. Of… of openness and opportunity offered.
As the diversity of data types, data profiles. And ontologies that are integrated into how you're.
Manipulating zeros and ones. In other words, can you make the front end.
Fit for human use. Factoring for the diversity of human beings.
A tall, tall order.
So that's… that's my gauntlet. That's my… my… my gauntlet through… Uh, down, because… Um, like, that's what's needed.
It's…
Doug, it's designed to do that to a degree,
And that applies to the existing technology.
Never before embodied in software.
I'm sorry that that sounds so dramatic, but that's the reality.
Understood. Okay, I'm looking… No, no, no, I believe it, and I'm looking forward to seeing that, because that's the shit.
Cool. And I'm looking forward for comments about this session and where we're headed. Um, Alex?
Yeah.
Sure.
Yeah, yeah. Text Adventure Games.
It's not a poem, but can I just mention something? You mentioned… I don't know what you called it, about the… You're in the forest, and there's a stream, I don't remember what you called that particular…
Yeah, so… all those games, LLMs are great at.
You can literally ask it to create anything, a science fiction or whatever.
It is even more fun than usual, because if you're lucky enough that the LLM you use.
Creates a program behind the scenes. Which then executes as you run along.
You'll get consistency. But if you just get normal LLM stuff.
It literally makes it up along, so if you go west from this point.
And you think you have ended up there again. You're not there. You have other options. It's quite surreal, and quite…
Fun with a glass of wine in your hand, and… trying to kind of go through your imagination. It really is superb. You can have zombies, you can do anything.
All possible.
You know, in a lens. That's where LLMs were made for, in my opinion.
Thank you, thank you.
Any other closing thoughts?
Make things up…
I think that's our call for today.
See you all in a week.
Um, thank you very much.
Hi, everybody.